So we had a look at state management and there, at the provider package in this module.
State management is a super important topic because it makes sure that your main.dart file in your main
app here stays clean and you don't rebuild the entire app with every little change that might affect
some tiny piece in your app. With the provider package, you provide data, like objects here
and by the way, that could also be plain strings or numbers but here, it's objects and typically, it is
objects. You provide objects here with ChangeNotifierProvider typically, either with value here, with
the value constructor or with the builder function you saw at the beginning of this module and then
anywhere in your app, below these providers,
so on child widgets here, you can listen to the provided values either with provider of, like we're doing
it here in the orders screen or with consumer as we're doing it in the ProductsOverviewScreen, there
we're using consumer.
The difference between consumer and provider of was that with provider of, you rerun the entire build
method here, even if you're in a stateless widget, actually that does not matter a bit when you're using
provider of in there, build reruns whenever this changes,
just like as with theme of or media query of, there the build method would also rerun if the data
they are connected to changes, it's the same here for the provider. With the consumer, it's a bit different.
There, you also rerun whenever the data changes but you only rerun the builder function. So consumer
can be nice if you only want to rebuild a part of a widget tree when something changes instead of the
entire widget tree.
You also learned how to have provided data into another provider, like here, product, that also has a
ChangeNotifier and we can change the favorite status and we manage our product, our product items here in
the products class and still we can provide both and tap into both. Together with that, you also learned
that you don't just have to provide here in your main widget, you can also provide on a lower level, like
in our products grid where we do actually provide our product items here. You learned that you can
set listen to false in cases where you really only want to get data one time or dispatch an action,
like add order where you're not interested in the resulting changes and you only just want to dispatch
that, then you can use listen false and also very important,
I explained when you would use the provider pattern or the provider package and provide values application
wide or across multiple widgets at least and when you would stick to stateful widgets, namely you would
always use stateful widgets if you only have states that affects this widget only or actually even
if it's this widget and maybe a child widget but whenever you don't have state that affects multiple
different places in your app that maybe are also distributed quite a bit in the overall widget tree.
That's state management, we'll still add more features to this little app because it's a nice demo app
that allows us to dig deeper into other concepts too but I hope that state management is clear here and
why the provider package is definitely a package and a pattern
you should be aware of.